Update KIC troubleshooting for 2.9 and add GWAPI port note (#5196)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/kubernetes-ingress-controller/troubleshooting.md

port-forward <POD_NAME> 10256:10256`, and visit `http://localhost:10256/debug/pprof/`.

> {% if_version gte:2.8.x %}

Reviewer: This will also display for 2.8.x, so I wasn't sure if your changes were specific to 2.9.x and later.

> ## Identifying and fixing invalid configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Identify and fix an invalid configuration
```

Kubernetes resources can request configuration that {{site.kic_product_name}}

> cannot translate into valid {{site.base_gateway}} configuration. While the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can't translate into a valid {{site.base_gateway}} configuration. While the
```

[admission webhook](/kubernetes-ingress-controller/{{page.kong_version}}/deployment/admission-webhook/)

> can reject some invalid configuration at creation time and the controller can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can reject some invalid configurations during creation and the controller can
```

> fix some invalid configuration on its own, some configuration issues require

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fix some invalid configurations on its own, some configuration issues require
```

> human review to correct. When such issues arise, {{site.kic_product_name}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you to review and fix them. When such issues arise, {{site.kic_product_name}}
```

creates Kubernetes Events to help you identify problem resources and understand
how to fix them.

> ### Monitoring for issues that require human intervention

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Monitor for issues that require manual fixes
```

{{site.kic_product_name}}'s [Prometheus metrics](/kubernetes-ingress-controller/{{page.kong_version}}/references/prometheus)
include `ingress_controller_translation_count` and
`ingress_controller_configuration_push_count` counters. Issues that require
human intervention add `success=false` tallies to these counters.

> {{site.kic_product_name}} will also emit error logs with a `could not update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{site.kic_product_name}} also generates error logs with a `could not update
```

kong admin` for configuration push failures.

### Finding problem resource Events

> Once you have observed a translation or configuration push failure, you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you see a translation or configuration push failure, you can
```

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  annotations:
    konghq.com/methods: GET
    konghq.com/protocols: grpcs
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: kong
  name: httpbin
  uid: 3dcd75e9-c076-46a0-8cd3-3cc62f081920
spec:
  rules:
  - http:
      paths:
      - backend:
          service:
            name: httpbin
            port:
              number: 80
        path: /bar
        pathType: Prefix
```

{{site.base_gateway}} will reject the route {{site.kic_product_name}} creates
from this Ingress and return an error. {{site.kic_product_name}} will process
this error and create a Kubernetes Event linked to the Ingress.

You can quickly find these Events by searching across all namespaces for Events
with the special failure reasons that indicate {{site.kic_product_name}}
failures:

```bash```
kubectl get events -A --field-selector='reason=KongConfigurationApplyFailed'
```
Response:
```
NAMESPACE   LAST SEEN   TYPE      REASON                         OBJECT            MESSAGE
default     35m         Warning   KongConfigurationApplyFailed   ingress/httpbin   invalid methods: cannot set 'methods' when 'protocols' is 'grpc' or 'grpcs'

> ```

Reviewer: Since `KongConfigurationApplyFailed` only applies to 2.9.x or later, I'd add {% if_version gte:2.9.x %}  around this. Should we add an example that would display for only 2.8.x (`{% if_version eq:2.8.x %}`) for `KongConfigurationTranslationFailed`?

> The controller can also create events with the reason

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The controller can also create Events with the reason
```
It was capitalized previously, so I thought it might need to be capitalized here as well.

`KongConfigurationTranslationFailed` when it catches issues before sending
configuration to Kong.

{:.note}

> > {{site.base_gateway}} 2.8 only emits `KongConfigurationTranslationFailed`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> {{site.base_gateway}} 2.8 only generates `KongConfigurationTranslationFailed`
```

> > Events. `KongConfigurationApplyFailed` Events were added in 2.9.

Reviewer: I think if we conditionalize the examples I referenced earlier, I don't think this note would be needed.

The complete Event contains additional information about the problem resource,
the number of times the problem occurred, and when it occurred:

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Event
count: 1
eventTime: null
firstTimestamp: "2023-02-21T22:42:48Z"
involvedObject:
  apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
  kind: Ingress
  name: httpbin
  namespace: default
  uid: 3dcd75e9-c076-46a0-8cd3-3cc62f081920
kind: Event
lastTimestamp: "2023-02-21T22:42:48Z"
message: 'invalid methods: cannot set ''methods'' when ''protocols'' is ''grpc''
  or ''grpcs'''
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2023-02-21T22:42:48Z"
  name: httpbin.1745f83aefeb8dde
  namespace: default
  resourceVersion: "861"
  uid: ab78a0fa-ebe7-4d86-a465-a4e7d636ccff

> reason: KongConfigurationApplyFailed

Reviewer: Should we also have an example for 2.8.x since this is specific to 2.9.x?

reportingComponent: ""
reportingInstance: ""
source:
  component: kong-client
type: Warning
```

{{site.kic_product_name}} creates one Event for every individual problem with a
resource, so you may see multiple Events for a single resource with different

> messages. The message describes the reason the resource is invalid--in this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
messages. The message describes the reason the resource is invalid. In this
```

> case, because gRPC routes cannot use HTTP methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
case, it's because gRPC routes cannot use HTTP methods.
```

Removing the annotation will clear the issue:

```bash
kubectl annotate ingress httpbin konghq.com/methods-
```

Response:
```
ingress.networking.k8s.io/httpbin annotated
```

{:.note}

> > Clearing issues does not immediately clear the Events. Events do eventually

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Clearing issues doesn't immediately clear the Events. Events do eventually
```
